♪♪
>>> WE START WITH SECRETARY OF
STATE ANTONY BLINKEN'S POWERFUL
MESSAGE IN ISRAEL TODAY.
HE WAS VISIBLY SHAKEN,
DESCRIBING MORE HORRIFIC IMAGES
THAT HE WAS JUST SHOWN BY
ISRAELIS.
FROM THE BARBARIC HAMAS TERROR
ATTACK ON INNOCENT CIVILIAN
FAMILIES ON OCTOBER 7th.
>> I SAW, FOR EXAMPLE, A FAMILY
ON A KIBBUTZ, A FATHER, TWO
YOUNG BOYS, MAYBE 10, 11 YEARS
OLD, GRABBING THEM, PULLING THEM
OUT OF THEIR LIVING ROOM, GOING
THROUGH THEIR VERY SMALL
BACKYARD AND INTO A SHELTER,
FOLLOWED SECONDS LATER BY A
TERRORIST WHO THROWS A GRENADE
INTO THAT SMALL SHELTER.
AND THEN AS THE FATHER COMES
STAGGERING OUT, SHOOTS HIM DOWN.
AND THEN THE BOYS COME OUT AND
THEY RUN INTO -- INTO THEIR
HOUSE, AND THE CAMERA IN THE
HOUSE IS FILMING EVERYTHING, AND
THEY'RE CRYING, WHERE IS DADDY,
ONE SAYS, THE OTHER SAYS, THEY
KILLED DADDY.
WHERE IS MY MOMMY?
AND THEN THE TERRORIST COMES IN
AND CASUALLY OPENS THE
REFRIGERATOR AND STARTS TO EAT
FROM IT.
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE DEALING WITH.
AND IT IS STRIKING AND IN SOME
WAYS SHOCKING THAT THE BRUTALITY
OF THE SLAUGHTER HAS RECEDED TO
QUICKLY IN THE MEMORIES OF SO
MANY.
>> BLINKEN ALSO SPOKE OF YOUNG
PALESTINIAN CHILDREN PULLED FROM
THE WRECKAGE OF BUILDINGS IN
GAZA.
>> WHEN I LOOK INTO THEIR EYES
THROUGH THE TV SCREEN, I SEE MY
OWN CHILDREN.
HOW CAN WE NOT?
HAMAS DOESN'T CARE ONE SECOND OR
ONE IOTA FOR THE WELFARE, FOR
THE WELL BEING OF THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
IT CYNICALLY AND MONSTROUSLY
USING THEM AS HUMAN SHIELDS,
PUTTING COMMANDERS AND WEAPONS
AND AMMUNITION BENEATH
RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, SCHOOLS,
MOSQUES, HOSPITALS.
BUT CIVILIANS SHOULD NOT SUFFER
THE CONSEQUENCES FOR ITS INN
HUMANITARIAN AND ITS BRUTALITY.
>> AS YOU CAN HEAR THE EMOTION
IS PALPABLE, CALLING BLINKEN'S
TASK COMPLICATED IS ALMOST AN
INSULT TO THE DIFFICULTY OF THE
POLICY HURDLES AND TRYING TO
NAVIGATE THE NEAR IMPOSSIBLE
AMIDST A SEA OF ANGER AND
DESPAIR.
CNN'S JEREMY DIAMOND IS JOINING
US FROM SDEROT INSIDISEL.
JEREMY, THE VISIT IS NOT
STOPPING WHAT IS GOING ON ON THE
GROUND THERE.
JEREMY, I WANT TO TRY TO BRING
YOU IN NOW, I KNOW THERE IS A
LOT HAPPENING RIGHT WHERE YOU
ARE.
THIS IS WHAT WE ARE LOOKING AT
ARE LIVE PICTURES.
>> Reporter: CAN YOU HEAR ME,
DANA?
>> YES, WE CAN HEAR YOU.
TELL US WHAT'S HAPPENING HERE.
>> Reporter: DANA, WE ARE ON A
STILL OVERLOOKING THE GAZA
STRIP.
YOU HAVE A LOT OF MEDIA THAT ARE
ACTUALLY SET UP.
WE HAD A SIREN GO OFF JUST
MOMENTS AGO AND ACTUALLY THERE
WAS A HIT IT APPEARS ON A
VEHICLE NEARBY.
WE ARE STANDING -- AGAIN, THERE
IS A LOT OF MEDIA HERE BECAUSE
THIS IS ONE OF THE OVERLOOK
POINTS TO LOOK INTO THE GAZA
STRIP AND WHAT YOU'RE SEEING --
LET'S JUST GET CLOSER TO SOME OF
THE DAMAGE IF WE CAN HERE.
YOU SEE THERE IS OBVIOUSLY A LOT
OF PRESS, IT'S QUITE A SCRUM
HERE, BUT THIS CAR APPEARS TO
HAVE BEEN BLOWN OUT BY SOME KIND
OF A ROCKET PERHAPS OR AN
INTERCEPTION, SHRAPNEL MAY HAVE
TALLER, BUT WHAT WE HEARD WAS A
VERY, VERY LOUD BOOM.
IT APPEARED TO BE SOME KIND OF
AN IMPACT FALLING DIRECTLY ON
THIS VEHICLE OR NEAR IT.
TRYING TO GET A BETTER LOOK,
DANA, BECAUSE I DON'T WANT TO
GET THE FACTS WRONG HERE.
BUT YOU CAN SEE THAT OBVIOUSLY
THIS VEHICLE THERE'S QUITE A LOT
OF DAMAGE TO IT AND WE HEARD A
VERY LOUD IMPACT.
LET ME WALK AROUND THIS WAY WITH
MY CAMERAMAN IF HE CAN FOLLOW ME
HERE.
WE HEARD A LOUD BOOM, WE HAVE
NOT SEEN ANY PIECES OF THE WOKT
AT THIS POINT.
IT'S POSSIBLE THERE WAS SOME
KIND OF AN INTERCEPTION RIGHT
OVERHEAD AND SHRAPNEL MAY HAVE
FALLEN TO HIT THIS VEHICLE.
IT'S VERY HARD TO TELL RIGHT
NOW, BUT OBVIOUSLY THIS IS ONE
OF THE REALITIES HERE.
THE IRON DOME SYSTEM OBVIOUSLY
TAKES OUT THE OVERWE WILL MIPG
MAJORITY OF THOSE ROCKETS, BUT
SOME OF THEM DO GET THROUGH AND
IN SOME CASES YOU ALSO HAVE TO
BE AWARE OF THE SHRAPNEL THAT
MAY FALL DOWN.
OBVIOUSLY THIS IS TURNING INTO A
BIT OF A CIRCUS HERE SO I'M
GOING TO TAKE US CLOSER THIS
WAY.
YOU CAN SEE THERE'S SOME DAMAGE
HERE AS WELL ON THIS VEHICLE,
WHICH MAY HAVE BEEN DUE TO
SHRAPNEL FALLING.
AND SO THIS IS THE REALITY OF
THE SITUATION HERE, DANA.
>> AND, JEREMY, UNDERSTANDING
THAT THIS JUST HAPPENED JUST
BEFORE YOU CAME ON AIR WITH US.
I WANT YOU TO GO BACK TO AN
IMPORTANT POINT THAT YOU MADE
WHICH IS THAT YOU ARE IN ISRAEL,
YOU ARE NEAR THE BORDER WITH
GAZA AND THE HAMAS -- THE
TERRORISTS IN HAMAS WHO STILL
HAVE THE ABILITY, THE
CAPABILITY, DESPITE THE
CIVILIANS NOT HAVING WATER OR
ELECTRICITY AND WHAT HAVE YOU,
CAPABILITY SOMEHOW TO SHOOT
MISSILES OR WHATEVER KIND OF
ATTACK THAT THEY'VE JUST TRIED
TO LAUNCH INSIDE ISRAEL.
>> Reporter: YEAH.
>> AND WHAT HAPPENED -- WHAT
HAPPENS REGULARLY -- SORRY,
JEREMY.
WHAT HAPPENS REGULARLY IS
BECAUSE ISRAEL HAS WHAT'S CALLED
THE IRON DOME AND THE ABILITY TO
INTERCEPT WHAT COMES IN, IT
KEEPS -- FOR THE MOST PART IT
KEEPS ISRAEL SAFE, BUT IT'S NOT
FOOLPROOF AND THERE IS SHRAPNEL.
>> Reporter: UNDERSTANDABLY.
AND AS I SAID, WE AREN'T SURE
WHETHER THIS WAS A DIRECT HIT TO
THIS VEHICLE.
TO ME THIS SEEMS LIKE MOST
LIKELY SOME SHRAPNEL THAT HIT
THIS VEHICLE, JUST GIVEN THE
SCALE OF THE DAMAGE, BUT IT IS
HARD TO TELL.
SOME OF THESE ROCKETS ARE
ACTUALLY NOT THAT -- DON'T HAVE
THAT MUCH EXPLOSIVE ON THEM,
SOME OF THESE ROCKETS THAT HAMAS
USES, AND SO IT'S A LITTLE BIT
DIFFICULT TO TELL AT TIMES IF
IT'S SHRAPNEL OR A DIRECT HIT,
BUT I CAN TELL YOU THAT WE HAD
SECONDS TO REACT HERE.
WE HEARD THAT SIREN MAYBE, YOU
KNOW, THREE TO FIVE SECONDS
LATER WE HEARD A VERY, VERY LOUD
BOOM COMING FROM RIGHT WHERE WE
ARE RIGHT NOW AND YOU CAN HEAR
SOME OF THE CAR ALARMS STILL
GOING OFF, BUT I DO WANT TO AS
WE TALK ABOUT THIS AND AS WE
TALK ABOUT SOME OF THE DAMAGE
THAT HAS HAPPENED HERE, WE
SHOULD ALSO KEEP IN MIND THE
DAMAGE THAT IS HAPPENING INSIDE
OF GAZA AS WELL WHERE ISRAELI
STRIKES, BOMBS, MISSILES
TARGETING HAMAS COMMAND CENTERS,
MANY UNDERGROUND, BUT ALSO
TARGETING RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
WHERE ISRAELI FORCES SAY THAT
HAMAS FIGHTERS HAVE EMBEDDED
THEMSELVES.
IN GAZA THEY DON'T HAVE AN EARLY
WARNING SYSTEM, THEY DON'T HAVE
BOMB SHELTERS TO RUSH INTO AS WE
WERE ABLE TO DO AND WE HAVE
WATCHED OF COURSE AS THE TOLL OF
CASUALTIES IN GAZA HAS MOUNTED
QUITE SUBSTANTIALLY OVER THESE
LAST THREE AND A HALF WEEKS OF
WAR.
I DO THINK THAT THAT'S SOMETHING
WE KEEP IN MIND, ESPECIALLY AS
THERE'S QUITE A SCRUM OF MEDIA
HERE AND ONE OF THE REASONS
EVERYONE IS HERE IS BECAUSE,
AGAIN, THESE POSITIONS OVER HERE
IS WHERE WE ARE POSTED TO KIND
OF WATCH THE ACTIVITY INSIDE THE
GAZA STRIP.
DANA?
>> JEREMY, STAY SAFE, PLEASE.
I KNOW YOU DON'T NEED ME TO TELL
YOU THAT, BUT ALSO I JUST WANT
TO SAY THAT THIS IS HAPPENING
WHILE, AGAIN, AS I JUST PLAYED
AT THE BEGINNING OF THE SHOW,
THE U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE IS
THERE, IS IN THE